
- <strong>National Natural Science Foundation of China General Program project, Project Leader, 2025-2028.</strong>\
  *<strong>“Identification of early life signatures in Archean banded iron formations and stromatolites and the influence of abiotic processes”</strong>*\
  General description: Studying the origin and evolution of early life on Earth is crucial for understanding the evolution of habitable conditions on Earth and exploring extraterrestrial life. The Archean Banded Iron Formations (BIF) and stromatolites preserve various clues of early life activities, but these clues are often influenced by later abiotic processes, including fluid alteration and prograde metamorphism, posing significant challenges in interpreting early life records. To overcome these challenges and accurately identify life signals in the burial windows of early life, this project focuses on typical Archean BIF and stromatolites, using a variety of in-situ geochemical proxies and high-precision microanalytics. The aim is to precisely identify organic matter records related to early life activities and delve into the impact of abiotic processes on the geochemical information of biogenic organic matter. The research pathways of the project include the comprehensive application of various organic matter trace element-molecular geochemical proxies to reveal early life information preserved within, exploring the spatial correlation between the geochemical characteristics of organic matter and surrounding specific minerals on multiple scales. This approach will enhance our understanding of the mechanisms of abiotic influences, thereby expanding and enriching research methods concerning early life records on Earth. It provides new perspectives on the origin and early evolution of life on Earth, and offers insights for the exploration of potential life signals on other rocky planets.

- <strong>National Natural Science Foundation of China Youth Science Fund project, Project Leader, 2021-2024.</strong>\
  *<strong>“The nanogeochemistry of abiotic organic synthesis during low-temperature alteration of the oceanic crust”</strong>*\
  General description: Alteration of the oceanic lithosphere is of significant (bio)geochemical importance in earth systems, which may not only have provided energy to the deep biosphere but also played a key role in abiotic synthesis of organic compounds. Previous studies have outlined the possible processes of abiotic organic synthesis during serpentinization of the mantle-derived rocks. However, reaction pathways for the abiotic formation of organics through low-temperature alteration of the oceanic crust are still not well constrained. In this project, I will study the altered oceanic basalts from the Southwest Indian Ridge, by using a multimodal approach that combines high-resolution imaging techniques, to conduct the nanogeochemical investigation of the carbonaceous matter in basalts. Furthermore, the association between abiotic synthesis of organic compounds, and low-temperature alteration as well as nanoscale physicochemical properties of the oceanic crust will be investigated. This project will potentially shed new light on both energy for the deep biosphere and the origin of life.
